The Colors of The Spectrum
Natural sunlight features the entire spectrum of light. When constructing LED panels, the manufacturers use only certain kinds of LEDs that will provide a specific color in order to feed your plants what they need. Here we will look at the different colors, including what the best combination is for your grow operation.

Blue. Blue LED lights, in the mid-400nm range, are ideal for vegetative growth that creates tall, leafy plants. During the flowering and budding phase, though, blue light is not very helpful and it can cause bushy plants without many buds.
Red. In contrast to blue light, Red LEDs in the 600-640 nm range will help encourage budding and flowering. Much like the way that blue light doesn’t help with flowering, too much red light will not help with vegetative growth, creating unhealthy plants.
White. White LEDs are a source of contention for many people, but if nothing else they are beneficial for you in order to see inside of your grow room. With only red and blue LEDs inside of your operation, it will be almost impossible to see problems accurately and correct them. There is a great deal of speculation, as well, centered on the balancing of the spectrum that they provide.
Ultraviolet. Ultraviolet light is not used in all LED grows, but it can be something worth experimenting with. The theory on using these originally comes from people who noticed that equatorial strains of marijuana had a much higher potency, despite having the most “damaging” rays of light going to them. Research has found that it could beneficial to use ultraviolet light in short bursts when you are looking to increase THC production.



Right Combination
Ensuring proper growth and plant health means making sure they have the right blend of light. Natural outdoor grows have the benefit of living in a world where all of the right wavelengths are provided to them, although it is relatively simple to replicate that indoors.

For the optimum ratio of different colors, you should have the following in the panel that you are using. As long as it is close, you will be fine.

*55% Red LEDs rated at 660nm
*20% Red LEDs rated at 630nm
*15% Blue LEDs rated at 470nm
*10% Blue LEDs rated at 425nm


http://plantozoid.com/

